
Good morning, this is an online course in cultural psychology. My name is Uichol Kim. I am a professor at college of business administration Inha University of Korea.
The goal of this course is to understand the creative potential of people in context. Context means relational, social, ecological and global context. Culture is a very important aspect.
And although most people think of culture as representing the past such as history, language and philosophy, culture represents collective creativity.
Cultures allow us to find meaning, find direction and find goals in our life. Thus, it is very important to understand culture. However, in order to understand culture, we have to look at global context.
We have to look at our neighbor, such as China, from which we obtain many of the cultural knowledge, and material goods.
We have to also look toward japan, we were colonized for 35 years. Our current educational system and many of the bureaucratic system was adopted from japan, in addition to organizational culture and behavior.
Finally, we have to look at the global context in which Korea is situated. we have to understand the interaction with the United States.
Governance, interaction with the European countries, and finally, we have to look at the ecological context.
Currently, sustainable development is a major issue because there is global warming due to human influence, especially carbon emission.
Thus we have to understand how can we stop the global warming and what can we do to create a better future for our children, and for humanity.
And we have to understand that we need to engage, cooperate and collaborate with various different cultures, religious groups and various different factions.
And collaboration and cooperation is predicated upon understanding who we are as a person, as a culture and how we can engage with other cultures, and how we can promote global prosperity, happiness and peace.
So the goal of this course is to understand who we are as an individual and from a cultural perspective, and how we can work together in promoting peace, happiness and quality of life.
For this course, I will focus on various different aspects of cultural development from historical, philosophical, religious and ecological perspective. The first part of this course will focus on the historical development.
I consulted for various different industries and various different companies around the world such as chemical company, life insurance, logistics, construction, property development, oil and gas, medical equipment, electronics, and even pharmaceuticals.
And the question is, what do these companies have in common? What do they have in common, these people?
We have to understand the people because people are the creators of the product. People create, innovate and are on entrepreneurial. And it is through people new products and new innovations are created.
Also, people are the consumers who buy, who use and who provide feedback as to whether they like the product or not.
Thus we have to understand people for health, for business or for sustainable development. One of the key aspect of people is culture. And the focus of this course is to understand people in cultural context.
What that means is understanding individual and collective creativity of how we manage our environment, how we manage our relationship, and how we manage the business and the career that we face.
The goal of this course will look at the creative aspect of the individual, of the collective such as a culture from a developmental, life span. As I mentioned in the brief introduction, the goal of cultural psychology is understanding people in context.
What do we mean by context? There are two aspects of context. One is the physical context in which we live, and the second context is time.
One thing that is unique about human being is we have memory. We have understanding of the past. So, in order to understand the present, we have to understand where we came from.
And the question that I raise to business executive to students, and people in general is where do you live?
When we hear this question, we think of the physical location such as Seoul, Incheon, Paris, Tokyo, or even in Seoul, a particular area.
However, if you answer this question from a physical perspective, that means world that exists then, you are an animal.
In other words, human beings are part of the animal kingdom. We live in a world that we share with other species.
Human beings is known as homo sapiens, and Homo means the species and sapiens means wise. So, in the animal kingdom, we as a human being were wise.
As a result, we were very successful in adapting, and also creating a life, and to expand a population that is beyond 7 billion people.
So, we share biological world with our family, and human beings come from the ape family.
Chimpanzees and bonobo monkeys are brothers and sisters biologically, and we share 99% of the genes with apes, monkeys, orangutan.
And the question is, are we similar to apes? Biologically, we share 99% of the similarity. However, do we behave like monkeys and apes? And the answer is no
We do not behave like monkeys and we do not behave like apes. And why is this a case? Because we also live in a world that we have created.
What is the world that we have created? That is culture. Culture is created in terms of housing, in terms of transportation, in terms of what we call family.
Human beings are relatively unique because we take care of our children and we invest a lot of emotional, financial, and we invest a lot of time to be with our family.
And this is what makes us different from apes and this is what makes us different from other animals. We have culture that influences how we think, feel, and behave.
And human beings are genetically very similar. We share 99.5% of the genes and only 0.5% differentiate one human being from another. So, biologically it is genes that creates similarity.
But genes to not determine who we are but provides us with potential, the possibilities. And this is where culture comes in.
Culture is similar to the software that we use to run the computer. And culture is different because different software is used to run the computer.
Different cultures have different values, different religions, and especially different language. One of the reasons I can speak English without a problem is because I grew up in Canada.
People who grow up in Canada will speak English naturally, but they would not have the capability of speaking Japanese, Thai, or Korean.
So, depending on where you grew up, who your parents are, you will learn different language, different values, and different belief system.
And thus, cultures make us different but not completely different because we can communicate, we can translate, and we can engage and we can work together.
How do we do so? Because there is a world of possibility. There is a future that is unknown but it can be created.
This is called creative innovators. People like Steve Jobs created a smart phone that did not exist ten years ago.
And smart phone makes it easier for us to function and connect with one another.
People like Elon Musk created new technology for space travel for electric car.
In Japan, people like Toyoda, Kiichiro Toyoda created new way of manufacturing and solving logistical problem.
People like Alibaba who is creating a new economy based on using internet.
In Korea Jeong Joo-young who created the heavy industries, automobile, and construction, and Lee kun-hee who created Samsung to become a global leader in electronic industry.
Several year ago, Korea was very poor, uneducated, but now, Korea is one of the highest educated country in the world.
And we can develop new products and we can be a world leader in IT industry.
So, we have traditionally lived in caves because human beings as a specie was a weak, weak animal and in order to survive, we had to hide in caves.
However, we learned how to hunt and we even learned to hunt for tigers, wolves, and elephants and hunting allowed us to survive.
The third major transformation is rather than eating the seed, we learned to harvest wheat and harvesting wheat. And also wild rice allowed us to live a sedentary life.
So now, many people in agriculture community can live in traditional villages where they can plant, and harvest and solve the subsistent need and have enough food to eat.
However, around 17th century, major industries began to develop Mass production, distribution, and consumption.
Industrial revolution allowed people to live in cities in urban centers, and it created a new culture and new challenges.
So, in Korea, 80% lived in traditional rural area, now, 80% live in modern cities.
We have to deal with strangers and we have to create rule of law, and we have to create infrastructure so that people can live in harmony.
And there is a new challenge called cyber world. In addition to the physical world, Koreans’ 90% use smart phones and use Google, and use social network system to interact with one another.
So, now we have smart phone, we have computer, that helps us to connect with the rest of the world.
And we even created artificial intelligence such as Alpha-Go who can play the game of go with Lee Sae-dol and beaten six out of seven times.
So, cyber world is a symbolic world that we created to interact with our physical world and to interact with one another.
Cyber world is a creative construction of people from different parts of the world and we use the symbolic world to interact with one another.
Culture is a symbolic world that allows to interact and communicate with other people.
Cyber world helps us to connect globally, and cyber world is a construction that is made collectively from people around the world.
And cyber world is changing the current physical world and is changing the Korean culture that we are living.
So, where do you live? In the physical world like other animals? Or in the cultural world that we share values, beliefs, and live in a community? Or do you live in the world of future in which you can create a new world.
World that can be destroyed by current global warming or a world in which you use smart technology, renewable resources and where we can create a sustainable development that will allow everybody to participate.
So, this course would focus on these three worlds, the physical world, the cultural world, and the world of possibility.
And so, our biology and cultures allow us to explore these possibilities and develop these possibilities. And I will focus on how these possibilities are developed.
And I will outline from the developmental perspective, historical perspective, and global perspective why cultural psychology is essential and necessary in understanding human behavior and how we create the world around us. Thank you very much.
